Raspberry PI OS Updates and Upgrades
Before installing OMV, update, upgrade and prepare Raspberry PI OS using the following commands:

Copy each of the following commands, one at a time.
Highlight a command and use (Ctrl+C) to copy the full line. Paste the line into PuTTY's SSH window, 
with a right mouse click. Then hit Enter.

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade -y

sudo apt upgrade


wget -O - https://github.com/OpenMediaVault-Plugin-Developers/installScript/raw/master/preinstall | sudo bash


When the above commands are complete, type;

sudo reboot

PuTTY will disconnect – this is expected. Wait 3 to 5 minutes and reopen a new PuTTY SSH window and log in again.


  Note
In the event that the SSH client does not respond to the IP address used during the first boot, look at your DHCP server to see if a “new” IP address has been assigned.

In rare cases, the LAN's router / DHCP server may need a reboot.


Install OMV
Installing OMV on Raspberry's is very easy, thanks to Arron Murray (ryecoaaron on the OMV Forum) for providing a comprehensive installation script that's executed from a single line.

Copy the following line complete (Ctrl+C) and paste it into PuTTY's SSH window, with a right mouse click. Then hit Enter.

wget -O - https://github.com/OpenMediaVault-Plugin-Developers/installScript/raw/master/install | sudo bash

Once the script is running, click out of the SSH window so the script will not be interrupted.
Do Not close PuTTY – that will terminate the root session. Minimizing PuTTY is OK, but it must be running.

Depending on several factors, running this script may take up to 30 minutes.

When the script is complete, the R-PI will automatically reboot.



First Time GUI Logon
After 3 to 5 minutes, OMV can be logged in using the same IP address that was used for the SSH client, entered in a web browser address bar. The web GUI user is admin and the default password is openmediavault


Note - after the completion of the script:

In the event that the OMV console or SSH client does not respond to the IP address used during the installation, recheck your DHCP server to see if a “new” IP address has been assigned.

(Typically, consumer router DHCP leases last at least 24 hours. In cases where DHCP leases are very short - as it is with some versions of DD-WRT router firmware [10 minutes] - the lease issued to the SBC may time out at the end of the installation. A different address may be issued on reboot.)
